Dana Frayne: Go
ahead and get started.
So before we dive
in, thank you, Amber,
for that wonderful introduction.
I also just want to give a
little background as well about
who I am and why I'll be
talking about what
I'm talking about today.
So my name is Dana Frayne.
I'm at the University of
Oxford as a master's student and
specifically I'm at the Internet
Institute so I spend my days
thinking about how the Internet
essentially affects society,
particularly in relation to
how the Internet
is accessible online.
Before coming to Oxford, I
was already quite interested in
digital accessibility so I don't
think it surprised any of my
friends or people who know me
that I wanted to study this for
my master's thesis.
In particular, like Amber said,
I worked as a freelance digital
accessibility consultant and one
of my projects working on the
American Civil Liberty--Civil
Liberties Union home page so
that it was
accessible was really great.
So currently finishing up the
master's degree at Oxford and
I'm gonna be talking about some
of my thesis findings today as
well as, you know, some of my
personal experiences working
in digital accessibility.
So, as sort of the agenda for
the talk today, first I'm gonna
kind of give a overview of
my research goals and then
transition to a brief discussion
of the theoretical frameworks
that are kind of
driving that question.
Then I'm going to be examining
briefly the method I use and
then the findings
and future directions.
So, the main takeaway from my
background earlier, is that I am
coming from both a practical
perspective on one side but then
also theoretical, more academic,
perspective and I mentioned my
course work at Oxford and that
involves a thesis which, one of
the main requirements is having
a research question, so on the
screen now is mine which says:
"What is the role of social
norms in the implementation of
digital accessibility practices
in the technology industry?"
So, with this question, I
was essentially working toward
figuring out and observing the
different norms that operate
when people
are trying to put
digital accessibility policies
into practice.
So one question I got in is
why study this particular topic?
And there are a few reasons,
the first one being that I have
found there is a gap in the
academic literature regarding
social norms and digital
accessibility, partially because
there is not, I'd say, a great
deal of academic research that,
you know, sort of publicly
exists squarely on the topic
of digital accessibility.
You know, furthermore, the
research that does exist is
often--it can be siloed into
niche topics and circles so
sometimes there is a risk of
being sort of put into echo
chambers of people who already
feel quite strongly about
digital accessibility, and then
you know, for the research that
does exist, the data does not
always, you know, cover the
aspect of implementation so
particularly in the technology
industry, sometimes I've found
that the viewpoints can be a bit
disconnected between, you
know, industry versus academia.
So one of the goals of my
research is to sort of, you
know, merge these two viewpoints
together, not that they exist,
you know, completely separately
but that was one of the goals.
And then, you know, secondly, or
second, digital accessibility is
highly, highly interdisciplinary
which I'm sure a lot of people
tuning in can relate to this
idea that, you know, to work in
digital accessibility sometimes
it feels like, you know, you
specialize in a lot of different
areas from, you know, the
technical part to the legal part
to, you know, the theory part,
and there are lots of
different parts to it.
So I--that was another reason I
wanted to kind of address social
norms because they touch on,
you know, all those areas.
And then finally, the third
reason which is the main reason
I wanted to study this is,
you know, my main personal
experiences with digital
accessibility and working in
digital accessibility, I
feel like I have, you know,
personally experienced these
social norms that I'm going to
talk about and my hope in
bringing them up today is that,
you know, maybe, you know,
someone tuning in will also have
experienced this and I think, as
a community of people who care
about digital accessibility,
it's important to, you know,
kind of rally around, you
know, advocating
for digital accessibility.
So, that's kind of the goal with
my research and the goal that
I'm--that I have today and I
think that's partially why
events like these are so
great because it brings
the community together.
So, moving on into the research
itself, I'm not going to spend a
great deal of time defining
theories and frameworks but I've
included the major theorist in
parentheses here on the screen,
along with, you know,
their associated theories.
So if you're interested and
wanna learn more about anything
I'm talking about, I have a list
of references at the end if you
wanna check it--check out
these theories further.
But the first one says the
social model of disability and
Mike Oliver and Tom Shakespeare
are two of the, you know,
leading architects
of this framework.
And it has its foundations in
the United Kingdom, sort of the
activist grassroots movement
when there was a big push from
the medical model of
disability to the social model.
And the conception of the social
model was, you know, founded in
this idea that social barriers
blocked participation
in social groups.
So this is a problem because,
you know, this, you know,
potentially could lead to
obstacles for people with
disabilities to
lead a fulfilling
and high quality of life.
And I mention this here,
primarily, because the social
model is now the primary mode
in which scholars studying the
topic of disability utilize and
it's therefore, you know, the
model that drives this research.
Just gonna take a
sip real quick.
Okay, well, so, moving on to
the next theory I have listed.
So, intersectionality from
Kimberlé Crenshaw who is a
brilliant feminist scholar.
She, you know, coined and is one
of the lead architects of this
concept, intersectionality,
which essentially means the
aspects of identity are fluid as
opposed to concrete, you know,
single artifacts of one's
self and self-presentation.
And in other words, you know,
intersectionality is sort of
this idea that multiple
identities like--dimensions of
identity like race,
socioeconomic status, gender,
ability, you know, so on, they
deserve an equitable weight when
kind of considering
identity politics.
So, based on this, you know,
cornerstone theory, it's--I'd
say it's fair to suggest that
disability is intertwined with,
you know, a lot of different
dimensions of identity, so when
talking about this research, I
feel like it's really important
to acknowledge that, you know,
disability doesn't, you know,
essentially exist in a vacuum.
It's, you know, there are lots
of parts of identity to think
about so I just wanna note up
front that I try to, you know,
incorporate intersectionality
into my research and just
general life approach.
And then, you know, moving
on to the next framework, the
narrative self, which is
proposed by and, you know,
really led by this philosopher
named Marya Schechtman and, you
know, essentially the narrative
self presents this idea that a
cohesive collection of one's
memories and ideas about the
self come together to present,
you know, the self presentation
so, in other words, whenever I
hear someone say, "This is, you
know, on brand for this person,"
I sort of think of this theory
because it's essentially, you
know, Schechtman's idea that,
you know, presentations of
the self, you know, it's a
collection of different
memories and artifacts
that are shared online.
So, with these theories in
mind, I'm gonna transition to a
discussion of the findings
and the process
of gathering the findings.
So for my thesis, I conducted
a series of interviews with
accessibility experts and
practitioners and it's important
to note that the primary
framework that I used was the
postmodernist viewpoint because
it was really, you know, I
related to it a lot because it
emphasized the nuanced nature
of, you know, the
interviewer and the interviewee
relationship, along with the
broader philosophical belief
that, you know, multiple
versions of the truth
can exist in society.
Also I was conscientious about
the broader postmodernist push
in academia to adhere to
equitable sampling practices
in order to better represent
diverse experiences
in the findings.
I'm just gonna--okay, sorry.
I feel like I'm battling a bit
of a cold coming on,
so, sorry about that.
Okay, back to it.
So, the second point was that
just another, you know, minor
know is that one of my concerns
with the interview method was
sometimes people can say, you
know, interviews purely produce
descriptive findings but, you
know, I would kind of push back
against this idea in the
sense that it's--interviews are
useful, particularly in
sociological research to uncover
social norms and
some perspectives
that can sometimes be hidden.
So now I'm gonna shift to a
discussion of the findings and,
to do that, I am going to
read off a brief scenario.
Okay, so, the--I'm gonna
read what's onscreen now.
So, imagine that you're working
at a company that is launching a
new website tomorrow.
You primarily work as a product
designer, but you're considered
the "go-to" person for digital
accessibility in the company.
You don't personally work on
the team that's preparing for
launch, but a manager from a
different team knows that you
know a lot about accessibility.
This manager emails
you to ask, "Hey!
Can you make the
website accessible before
the launch tomorrow?"
Less than a day is not a
lot of time to make a website
accessible, but you really want
to help because no one else in
the company seems to
know about
the specific accessibility
guidelines.
So you ask the manager, "Sure,
but, you know, what has already
been done for accessibility?"
They respond by saying, "We only
just remembered because we don't
want to get in trouble
with an inaccessible site.
If you could just check
the boxes for the basic
accessibility criteria before
launch, that would be great!"
Okay, so let's
dissect this for a moment.
You know, I cannot see the
comments right now but I would
venture to ask if anyone
listening or, you know, watching
has ever experienced a
scenario similar to this.
I know bits and pieces of this.
I certainly have, but
essentially I wanted to share
this, you know, fictional
scenario that's sort of drawn
from some truths that I, you
know, experienced because it
represents all three of
the social norms
that I'm gonna talk about today.
So, the three social norms have,
like I mentioned in the agenda,
are--so the first one's
compliance culture which I think
hopefully a lot of
people find interesting.
And then the second one is
valuation of accessibility work
and then the third one is
educational opportunities.
So now I'm going to transition
into a discussion of each of
these social norms by talking
about what they are, how they
play a role in digital
accessibility,
and then why they exist.
So, first, compliance culture.
In relation to digital
accessibility is a concept
that's discussed a great
deal in actually
Professor Sarah
Lewthwaite's research.
She focuses on studying
the pedagogy
of digital accessibility.
So her research is really
fascinating and if you're
interested in learning more
about compliance culture, I
would definitely recommend
looking up some of her articles.
Or you can email me afterwards
and I can, you know,
send you some as well.
But anyways, you know, as a
concept, compliance culture is
this idea that digital
accessibility is only a set of
rules to abide by as opposed to
a genuine, you know, approach to
accessibility that reinforces
creativity and continuity.
And I, you know, I also wanna
note here before moving forward
that just the name itself,
compliance culture, you know,
can potentially be misleading
in the sense, you know, when I
first heard about it, I was a
bit confused because on its own,
you know, I'd argue that
compliance is a good thing, you
know, complying with policies
shows that, you know, people
care, but, you know, the main
difference between compliance
versus compliance culture is,
you know, it graduates from
being this, you know, practice
to, you know, an attitude and
set of behaviors making it
more aligned with a social norm.
So that's when it becomes more
of an issue and this relates to
digital accessibility because,
you know, in interviews with
digital accessibility
practitioners working in the
technology industry, there was
this repeated theme about the
ongoing effort to kind of stymie
the practices of compliance
culture because, you know,
compliance culture can block,
you know, sustainability
of continued accessibility
practices, particularly because
it can sort of stand as a road
block between working
towards, you know, creativity,
innovation, and you know,
continuous accessibility process
as opposed to this
static, rigid, set of rules.
So, going back to the scenario I
presented, I wanted to highlight
this particular part that
sort of exemplifies this idea.
So on the screen it says the
quote, "We only just remembered
because we don't want
to get in trouble
with an inaccessible site."
This is coming from the
perspective of the manager.
"If you could just check
the boxes for the basic
accessibility criteria before
launch, that would be great."
So, this certainly has elements
of compliance culture,
in particular there's
the sense of urgency.
"We only just remembered."
This is a problem because
accessibility should certainly
be a--in an ideal world,
accessibility should be
incorporated from the very
beginning of the product
development process for, you
know, a multitude of reasons,
but in particular, you know,
one of those reasons is that it
prevents sort of this
last-minute stressful time of
trying to make something
accessible really quick because
it sort of changes from this,
you know, process of, okay, how
can we make this user experience
a good one as opposed to, okay,
how can we quickly just,
you know, meet the very basic
accessibility criteria so
we don't get in trouble.?
You know, those are two
different--there are significant
differences bet those two
approaches, and it's sort of
where compliance
culture is really relevant.
So before moving on to the next
social norm, I just wanted to
take a moment to reflect on, you
know, some reasons why I think
compliance culture exists
and regarding the theoretical
concerns, I think this
represents sort of a quick fix
mentality in the technology
industry because, you know, from
my experience--from my
experience working in tech, I
have found that, you know, there
are, you know, pressures to work
quickly and
launch things quickly.
And, you know, I think that's
good for, you know, innovation.
However, I think in order for
accessibility to, you know,
exist in that sort of very fast
process, it's essential that
it's ongoing consideration as
opposed to, okay, let's look at
this right before we launch.
And then, another--something
also that, you know, I've been
thinking about, and some other
scholars in this space, like
Professor -- and
Professor Sarah Lewthwaite also
have, you know, produced
research on, also other great
scholars, but essentially
there's this debate where
sometimes the definitions of
accessibility, the policies of
accessibility,
can be quite broad.
So sometimes it can feel
difficult to know exactly what
to do in order to make this
something accessible, when if,
you know, someone doesn't
know how to make something
accessible, which I talk further
about in the upcoming norms.
And then, the last two points:
practical constraints, so again,
time constraints are a
consideration, and the
availability of resources.
So, again with this scenario,
this scenario presented, you
know, trying to make something
accessible in a very short
amount of time and there's,
you know, putting all the
responsibility on one
person, can be quite difficult.
You know, the scenario didn't
mention how, you know, expansive
the product was so that can
again be quite challenging.
So, moving on to
the next --
social norm.
I wanted to talk about
the attitude and behaviors
associated with the valuation
of digital accessibility work.
And here, I wanna kind
of pause for clarity.
When I say, "valuation," I am
talking about both the financial
and opportunity cost
associated with the
work of digital accessibility.
So, the first point I want to
address is that the values
associated with this digital
accessibility work are quite
varied, you know, based on
industry and location and a lot
of different factors, and also,
you know, going back to, you
know, Kimberlé Crenshaw's theory
of intersectionality, there are
a lot of factors at play with
cost and value, so it's--so I
wanna make sure I clarify
here that, you know,
it doesn't exist in a vacuum.
However, there is this trend
I noticed in my research and
personal experience that
this, you know, it is not
always--accessibility work
is not always, you know,
compensated fairly in my opinion
and, you know, one of the most
common ways that this manifests
is and maybe some people
watching or listening have had
this experience where people who
are, you know, experts or
knowledgeable, even, in digital
accessibility practices are
called on to do the work of
multiple people and so, by this,
I mean that sometimes, digital
accessibility is sort of viewed
as maybe a side project or
optional and, you know, in this
scenario, you know, this person
is sort of--it's not clear
whether this person's going to
be compensated or recognized
properly, you know,
for their work.
And the second point I wanna
make--the second point I wanna
make--want to make about
this is that the valuation of
accessibility work, often it can
be--it can co-exist alongside
this phenomenon of being
siloed into an accessibility
maintenance role,
even, you know,
when the job description
doesn't call for it.
And sort of, by this, I mean
that accessibility work requires
a flexibility as I mentioned
earlier with, you know,
compliance culture,
accessibility in my view is a
continuous, you
know, ongoing process.
So when it's viewed through
a lens of, you know, being
optional or not as valued,
that really puts a strain on the
whole process because it doesn't
necessarily give the space
that's needed for digital
accessibility to really, you
know, prosper and be successful.
So returning to the example
presented earlier, the way this
issue of value presents itself
is through the following quote
on the screen, which says, "A
manager from a different team
knows that you know a
lot about accessibility."
So, reflecting on this for a
moment, the way the social norm
manifested in this scenario is
that, you know, it's not clear
from this scenario that
accessibility is considered a
part of this, you know,
person's usual accessibilities.
It's noted that the person is
knowledgeable; however, you
know, it's also noted that they
are primarily a product designer
so you can kind of assume that
they, you know, their whole job
isn't focused on accessibility
which, you know, presents a
different scenario but it's not
clear--the main point I'm trying
to make here is it's not clear
whether this person is going to
be compensated
for their time working
on this accessibility process.
It's sort of presented as a
favor as opposed to, you know,
you're gonna get, you know,
recognition for your work, which
is really, really
important in terms of value.
And then, the other point I
wanna mention which is not
specifically mentioned in the
slide but the general attitude,
sort of, of this manager kind
of signals to me a lack of, you
know, recognition for the
accessibility process as, again,
being, you know, continuous
process that should be
incorporated from the very
beginning when possible.
So, this sort of leads to
the question of why do these
valuation challenges
exist in the first place.
Well, in my opinion, the answer
is quite complicated, so it--I'd
argue that there are a lot of
parallels that exist, you know,
with the broader disability
rights movement and, you know,
I'm looking at the time.
For sake of time, it's sort of
hard to dive into that now, but
if you wanna talk more about
that, definitely send me an
email and I'd love to talk about
it but, essentially, the, you
know, the main relationship
here is that I'd argue that the
struggle with value is part of a
overarching, you know, broader
perspective that exists in
the technology industry where
stakeholders don't necessarily
recognize accessibility work
with the value
of other disciplines,
other technical skills.
And, you know, this is a problem
because, you know, this can
manifest in different ways
where, you know, maybe someone
doesn't get promoted or
recognized in the same way that,
you know, other people do
because if, you know, the
employers don't recognize, okay,
accessibility work, it's very
significant, it's important, and
it's, you know, critical to a
product having a strong useable
experience that, you know, that
can create significant problems.
And then the second part of
this where, you know, sometimes
accessibility can sort of be
viewed through this lens of
volunteering where, as I
mentioned earlier, it's unclear
whether this person in this
scenario is going to be properly
compensated for their time and,
if this is just a favor, you
know, that doesn't really--that
doesn't really, you know, help
with accessibility
being properly recognized.
And last point I wanna make
about this before moving to the
next social norm is I
personally struggle with this.
You know, and maybe people
tuning in as well really
struggle because as someone
who's really passionate about
digital accessibility, I'm so,
you know, I'm really happy when
people, you know, express
interest in it, even if it is
last-minute or, you know,
even if it is challenging.
So I'm definitely more, you
know, inclined to I wanna help
as much as I can but that can
also present a challenge when,
even if I help, if my, you know,
work isn't valued in the same
way, it can be
quite frustrating.
So, on that note, moving to the
third and final social norm that
I'm going to discuss today,
is the specific attitudes and
behaviors that people face when,
you know, first entering the
field of digital accessibility,
specifically in relation to
educational opportunities
for accessibility.
Okay, so a recurring theme with
that, the offerings for digital
accessibility education are
not particularly robust in
comparison to other skills, you
know, other technical skills
in design and development.
And the repercussions for these
lack of accessibility resources
is, you know, widespread and I
kind of wanna, you know, focus
this section on a couple of key
points but, you know, one of the
points I have listed onscreen is
that there is no, you know, one
pathway to studying digital
accessibility, which on the one
hand is good because, you know,
I, you know, personally relate
to this idea that I have
picked up lessons about digital
accessibility on the job which
helps in terms of, you know,
learning practical ways to apply
accessibility but, at the same
time, you know, if one
doesn't have access to work
opportunities, to learn, it can
make things quite difficult to
gather digital accessibility,
you know, specific practices,
which leads to kind of the third
point I have here, which is
there is, I have found, as well
as in my research, that there
are pretty significant
differences that exist between,
you know, learning about
accessibility from this
theoretical perspective
versus implementing it.
And, you know, there are lots
of, I was, before moving, I did
wanna mention, you know, there
are lots of great resources and
classes out there and, you know,
if you have any favorite classes
or things I would love to, you
know, see them in the comments.
But I wanted to note, you
know, in terms of mainstream
educational options, you know, I
would say there are not any, you
know, major degrees that specify
in digital accessibility.
There are minor certificates,
you know, online classes which
are great, but I, you know, I
think if, for example, if there
was a master's degree in digital
accessibility I would totally
want to enroll in that, but from
my search, there is not, and
that can, you know, that is sort
of a challenge in and of itself
because, you know, stakeholders
at universities and educational
programs do not always recognize
accessibility work with the
value of other disciplines.
So one way this manifests
specifically is, you know, from
people I've talked to,
accessibility can, you know, be
incorporated into computer
science classes or sometimes
even have a whole course
dedicated to accessibility which
is great, but I feel like and--I
feel like this is a common
feeling but accessibility is so
expansive and, like I mentioned
in the previous slide, it's hard
to sort of narrow it down versus
into, you know, theory versus
practice, so I feel like if
there was more room and
more recognition of digital
accessibility in these
mainstream educational places
and spaces, I should say,
that, you know, would lead
to more widespread education.
Okay, so through this example,
I--the social norm sort of
manifested through the quote,
"You primarily work as a product
designer, but you're considered
the," quote, "'go-to' person for
digital accessibility
in the company."
So, solely from what I've
gathered, particularly at
smaller companies and startups,
it's sort of not uncommon for
there to be sort of this,
you know, "go-to" person for
accessibility, you know, which
is fine but I think, you know, I
think in an ideal world, it
would be amazing if, you know,
every person had at least a
foundation in accessibility
because, you know, accessibility
doesn't exist in this vacuum.
It's not just, you know, an
engineering concern, design
concern, content concern, you
know, a recruiting concern.
You know, it really exists
widespread so I think it's not
particularly fair for the, you
know, responsibility to be with
one person so sort of one way
to combat this is for, you know,
education to be more widespread
and at the university training
crash course level,
accessibility, more
accessibility
knowledge would be good.
But employers can also, you
know, have a role in this when,
you know, when new employees
are being onboarded, be great if
accessibility is discussed
and, you know, acknowledged and
specific practices for
that company are shared.
So it's not sort of
reliant on one person.
Okay, so wrapping up, we're
about 35 minutes so I think
about 5 to 10 more minutes
and then I'd love to take any
questions for a bit.
But the first future direction
is, I think it's really
important for people working in
digital accessibility to work
towards combating solutionism,
so I should say here,
solutionism is sort of a concept
designed by this theorist,
Morozov, who I cite more in
the references but, essentially,
solutionism is this idea
that there is a goal of solving
problems, as opposed to, you
know, actually addressing the
complexity of
problems that exist
in the technology industry.
And I think this is
quite relevant to digital
accessibility because, you know,
digital accessibility, as I
mentioned, you know,
it's quite complex.
Not only is it an ongoing
process but it's very widespread
and interdisciplinary, so it's
critical that it's viewed
in that light.
It's not just, you know, ticking
the specific boxes of policy,
but it's recognized as a
comprehensive, you know,
widespread consideration so some
concrete ways to address this
would be, you know, making sure
that every person in, you know,
a company or a product team, is
knowledgeable about at least the
basics of accessibility but
also, you know, consistently
testing with users to make sure,
okay, this product, you know,
testing with users with
disabilities so there's an open
line of communication and that
you're recognizing that, okay,
the goal is to make this a good
usability experience, not just
to, you know,
tick off some boxes.
Then the second future direction
is there's really a critical
need to increase the
value of accessibility work.
And like I said earlier, this
is not, you know, there are
certainly exceptions to this.
However, I would say, you
know, a trend that I am kind of
concerned about is, you know,
it's not always--the value of
accessibility work is not
always, I think, given the
recognition that it deserves.
And, you know, people,
stakeholders in the tech
industry, certainly play a role
in this but, you know, also, you
know, anyone on a product team
just, you know, advocating for
accessibility, calling out
the work, supporting, you know,
people who also work in
accessibility, is, you know, a
great way to address this.
And then, finally, which is
probably the future direction
that I'm most excited about, is
this, you know, starting point
that I wanna suggest is that
integrating creativity into the
conversation is really a, you
know, a great way, I think, to
draw greater interest
and respect of digital
accessibility--greater
interest and respect
in the technology industry.
And, you know, there are a lot
of great projects in this space
which, you know, I can also
share links to if you wanna
email me afterwards.
But essentially, creativity is,
you know, a great vehicle for,
you know,
approaching digital access.
And sort of to, you know, wrap
up, I wanted to say, you know,
stakeholder changes
are, you know, critical.
Creative approaches are great,
and then collaboration in the
accessibility community is also,
you know, really important,
which is why, you know, events
like this are really exciting
and, you know, I'm really
excited to be a part of this
and, you know, connect and, you
know, virtually meet people who
also really care about
digital access, so that's it.
These are my references.
The slides are available at the
Wordpress Accessibility site if
you wanna, you know, go
through the references.
You can also send me an email.
My email's
dana.frayne@gmail.com,
and also my Twitter handle
is dana_frayne.
I just want to thank quickly,
you know, Joe Dolson and the
whole Wordpress Accessibility
team for having me and I'm happy
to take any questions.
female: Well,
thank you so much, Dana.
We do have a
couple of questions.
The first one is: "Do you
consider that the multiple
truths viewpoint is reflected in
the fact that there's frequently
no one true solution to web
accessibility questions?"
Dana: That's a
great question.
So it is something that I,
you know, think about because I
totally, you know, align
with this idea that digital
accessibility is a fluid social
construction and, by that, I
mean, you know, accessibility
means something different, I
think, to each person.
So I really, you know, hesitate,
kind of, when, you know,
accessibility is defined
as, you know, X, Y, and Z.
I think it really is dependent
on local context and, you know,
again tying back to this concept
of intersectionality, it's
really important I think to
acknowledge that, you know,
accessibility doesn't
exist in a vacuum.
It sort of touches on
these different dimensions of
identity, so I certainly think
that there's a connection there
and thanks for pointing that
out for who asked that question.
female: So the next question
is "What would you like to see
done with your research?
Do you have goals for it?"
Dana: Yes, this is
another great question.
I mean, I think, hopefully, I,
you know, would love to publish
my research in a academic
article but, you know, that is a
pretty intense process, but I,
you know, it's something
that I hope to do.
And also next year, I hope to,
you know, fingers crossed, I'll
be able to go to Morocco with
the Fulbright program to do a
research grant where I can sort
of continue this research and,
you know, approach it from a
different lens of studying
digital accessibility within a
specific context, as opposed to,
you know, this research today.
I recognize that it's, you know,
quite broad, so I think it would
be exciting to sort of go at it
from a different angle
and be more specific.
female: Do you--are you
hoping that it'll inspire
certain actions either at the
government level or among people
who work in digital
accessibility on a daily basis?
Dana: Sorry, can you
repeat that real quick?
female: Oh, I was just
following up on that question.
Are you hoping that your
research would inspire certain
actions either at the government
level or with those of us that
work in accessibility
on a daily basis?
Dana: Well, sure, yeah.
I mean, I think
that would be great.
You know, I think the one,
you know, main takeaway that I
really hope my research can
share is that I think, you know,
my personal experience
working in digital accessibility
sometimes it can feel, you know,
a bit, you know, lonely if,
you know, going back to that
scenario where there's one
person on this team
who's considered the expert.
I feel like, you know, when I
was conducting this research I
think it made me feel quite an
appreciation for the community
and, you know, knowing that
there are lots of people all
over the world who really care
about digital accessibility and,
if you're working on this
project, you know, you're
not--if you experience
something, there's probably
someone somewhere who is
experiencing something similar
so if you can sort of find, you
know, reach out to the community
and, you know, make connections
and feel the sense of
camaraderie, I think
that would be something.
I hope that is inspired
through this research.
female: Yeah, no, that
is definitely something with
Wordpress, right?
And accessibility as well.
We're very big on
community building, so.
There's a question here: "Do
you have ideas about ways to get
people excited about
the creative aspects of
accessibility instead of viewing
it as a maintenance task?
Dana: Yes, certainly.
I mean, I think--let's
see, how to structure this.
Well, you know, one example that
I wanna, you know, I think would
be great to draw attention to is
there is this project called
Alt Text as Poetry.
And I, you know, the specific
authors kind of, I can't recall
them off the top of my head but
hopefully, I can, you know, add
them in the--add a
link in the chat.
female: Shannon Finnigan?
Dana: Yes, yeah, yeah.
And then, so I think this is,
you know, a really brilliant
project because the, you know,
they really exemplify how, you
know, alt text is can--you know,
some people can view it as, you
know, the static, rigid practice
but it's, in a way, I feel like
it is sort of a poetic form,
and they really, you know,
encapsulate that and I think
projects like that
are really exciting.
I know there's also, you know, a
movement in the 'zine world to
sort of push for digital
accessibility and sort of, you
know, when there are artistic
projects like that, that I think
that can be really exciting, and
it's something that excites me.
female: Yeah, I think we have
time for one more question
and it's actually my question.
I'm wondering how do you propose
to increase the valuation of
digital accessibility so, you
know, we see a lot of almost
like fear-based arguments for
accessibility and I'm wondering
if you have thoughts on ways to
increase that valuation that's
maybe not fear-based, or do
you feel like, looking at the
social, that that is
just the way to go?
Dana: That's my--I
mean, that's a great question.
I feel like it's something I
sort of debate internally as
well because, I mean, I think
we do live in sort of a call-out
culture where fear is sort
of--can be a driving force.
However, I think, you know,
that's not the only way
to go about it.
I think, you know, grassroots
activism and sort of going back
to, you know, the social model
of disability, I'd say that the
grassroots kind of tactics used
in activism can also be used for
digital accessibility at, you
know, in this idea
of increasing value.
And then also I wanna say,
you know, there is strength in
numbers and I think--I guess
I've mentioned it a lot now, but
I would say, you know, but I
keep say it 'cause I think it's
really important, this idea
of community and, you know,
fostering support, you know,
between different accessibility
experts and practitioners is
really important to show, you
know, we are, you know, a
strong group of people
who are --
like numerous group of people
who, you know,
really care and wanna advocate
for digital accessibility.
female: Well, thank you.
Dana: Yeah, thank
you for having me.
female: Yes,
so thank you, everyone,
for attending this WP--